Now let's see how we can associate the two models together.
The blog post and tag and then how we can query those relations.
So first we'll have to run BHP artisan Tinker inside your terminal.
And we need to create some TAC models because we haven't previously.
And also we do not yet have a model factory and tax are not seeded.
So let's go ahead and create a new tag.
So starting with Tag 1 let's create an instance of the up tag model.
We have to associate a name to this model so let it be science
and save this new tag and we'll do that once more.
So we'll be creating our new target model this tag too can have the name let's say politics.
So that's it.
And then we obviously have to save it.
Now we have to tax now.
Let's see how we can associate them to our blog post.
So let's fetch one blog post.
We can do that using a blog post model find.
So let's fetch one with the idea.
1 OK.
It is being fetched.
Let's clear the screen now so we can see what is happening.
So we have our blog post which has the tags relations so we access this relation using the tax method
which will return the relation object which in turn has the attach method.
So that's the method you will use to attach tag to a blog post.
And of course the vice versa will see that in a moment.
So we have two tasks that we have created.
Tag one and talk two.
Now let's see how we can attach a single tag to the tax relation so we can call it like that.
You just pass a tag to the other.
You just pass our tag one to the attach method.
And this actually has created our relation at this point.
Now let's see that inside the database so you can see it is there with the output generated IDM and
blog post I.D. 1 and tag I.D. is one that matches with the tax that we have created.
So we just added a science stock to it.
Now if you would like to attach a couple of tax to a blog post you can do it almost the same way you
also use the attach method.
But this time you pass an argument which is under way and not only the model instance but this time
you will provide ideas of those models.
So we need ideas of both the tag one and tag to.
Now this also has saved the relation and let's see what do we get.
Now you might have spotted the potential problem or two problems that we have right now.
So we have free relations are that and you can see that they are all added to the blog post with ideas
one.
But the duck idea we have duplicated the tag basically.
So we have added the same tag to the same blog post.
So this will always happen if you will simply call the attach method.
It doesn't care about what you are passing to it.
Now if you do not want to duplicate the relations so in our case it doesn't make much sense to assign
the science stock twice to our blog post.
Obviously it's a nonsense.
So if you want to only attach a tag that's this unique or a relation that would be unique.
There is of course a way to also achieve that.
So let's create another tag.
So tax free New up tag let's assign a name to it.
So tag name would be let's say sport save this dog and now let's see how we can attach that.
So we'll do blog post tags and now we'll use a new method.
This is called since without detaching it also accepts an array of elements and we have to provide the
ideas of the models so we all do.
Tag one idea.
Dark to ideas and a new tag free I.D. now closed Del Rey and let's run it.
So what we see here is it actually returns an array as a result.
And let's see how the database looks like.
So you can see that even though we have passed free tag I.D. It only has that first one.
So the tag with Ida free the new one.
So what's the difference between attach and sync.
Is that when you use attach it will it won't care what you are attaching if the relation is duplicated.
So in our case you might assign the same tag to the relation twice.
Sometimes of course you might want to do that.
That's why you have this attach method.
But if you care about the uniqueness of those relations so you would only add wants to have one particular
tag of one type of one kind assigned to a blog post.
This is how you do it.
You call sense without detaching.
So now there is also another method that you can use.
So let's see you can do tags and just code sync.
So the difference between sense without sync without detaching and sync is that the sync method will
only leave the relations on the blog post model that you have specified here.
So let's say I want only tag 1 I.D. and talk to I.D. execute dot and it shows what actually was detached
so it didn't add any new relations because this blog post already had all those free tags.
And if we would we would at this point create task for and posit here.
It would be added and you would see that inside the result array attached key.
But the difference between sense and seemed sink without detaching is that if you haven't provided one
of the relations that you wonder and it already exists that on the table it actual you remove that.
So in this case it has removed the tag with Ida free.
Now let's see how the database looks like.
So now you can see that we only have one blog post which has two tracks with the idea 1 and I.D. 2.
Now we have this duplicate.
We won't need that.
So we can manually remove that.
So now we are left with one blog post model that is being associated to two tracks.
The tag with Ida.
And I did too.
Now let's see how we can detach our particular tag from a blog post.
So you might do a blog post dogs and then you can call detach and specify that you want to detach our
tag one so it returns one.
And let's see.
And it actually was detached.
So now let's associate this tag again so we can see something else.
So let's do a blog post dogs
attach
and we'll attach let's say tag free.
Now let's see what we have.
So we have blog posts one with two tracks with either two or three.
Now if you would like to remove all the associations from the blog post tags what you can do is you
can call detach without passing any arguments and it says that it's removed to associations so let's
see if that's true.
Yes the table is empty so mind that it is not removing any morals from the table.
It's just removing controls on this pivot.
Intermediate blog post stock table.
And that way it doesn't have any relations.
So now we have this example that we have attached to tags so let's run it again.
Let's clear the screen first.
Now we have again are two tags you can see out blog post with I.D. one that has two tags and now another
way to actually remove those associations is to call sync because if you will pass an empty array to
the sink which as we know also is attaching and attaching the models that you have passed inside array
and detaching those that you haven't passed inside the array.
So if you will pass an empty one it will actually detach everything and you can verify that inside the
database.
Now it doesn't have anything.
OK.
So that was it about attaching and detaching models in the next lecture we will see how we can query
those relations to fetch all the related models.